# 3.2.2 The Use of XML elements and types

A comprehensive overview of XML Schema can be found in the W3C XML Schema Primer. This section briefly describes the decisions that were made in the development of the IPC-258X schema. Reviewing the Primer is recommended prior to reading this section.

The XML Schema defines a namespace mechanism that can be used when defining element names. The W3C also provides a set of general purpose element and attribute types, such as xsd:string, xsd:double, and xsd:datetime. The IPC-2581 format uses these standard types, however the documentation of the IPC-258X standard has been defined without the use of a namespace prefix for element names within an IPC-258X file.

Each of the schema elements has a prefix, “xsd:”, which is associated with the XML Schema namespace through the declaration, xmlns:xsd=”http://www.w3.org/2000/08/XMLSchema”, that appears in the schema element. The prefix xsd: is used by convention to denote the XML Schema namespace, although any prefix can be used. The same prefix, and hence the same association, also appears on the names of built-in simple types, e.g. xsd:string. The purpose of the association is to identify the elements and simple types as belonging to the vocabulary of the XML Schema language rather than the vocabulary of the schema author.

In XML Schema, there is a basic difference between complex types that allow elements in their content and may carry attributes, and simple types that cannot have element content and cannot carry attributes. There is also a major distinction between definitions that create new types (both simple and complex), and declarations that enable elements and attributes with specific names and types (both simple and complex) to appear in document instances.

New complex types are defined using the complexType element and such definitions typically contain a set of element declarations, element references, and attribute declarations. The declarations are not themselves types, but rather an association between a name and constraints that govern the appearance of that name in documents governed by the associated schema. Elements are declared using the “element,” and attributes are declared using the “attribute.”
