# 8.2.3.15 Dfx

Many design and manufacturing tools have the ability to analyze the details of a data file and make a determination 
as to whether all the design rules have been met or if the parts are manufacturable within the capability of the board 
fabricator or assembler. The results of these analyses need to be retained so that future users of the data contained 
in the IPC-2581 file are aware of the improvements or risks which are apparent within the manufacturing domain. 
The Dfx element consists of a variety of criteria and queries. Criteria can also include DfxMeasurement elements 
indicating locations which violate the criteria properties. Each of these lists is identified separately so that the design 
for manufacturing analysis can be grouped according to their particular characteristic. The granularity of this grouping 
is dependent on the desire of the designer, fabricator, or assembler to capture the details of the Dfx analysis.  
Just as there may be several Dfx elements, each such element may contain many measurements 
(DfxMeasurement) that are described in order to indicate where the conditions afford a risk or need improvement. 
Since Dfx is designed for bidirectional communications, the DfxQuery element allows for one or more DfxResponses 
to the query or the DfxMeasurements listed under Criteria.  This allows a vendor to indicate the items of concern and 
allows the OEM to respond to each of those items individually or group all items in a Dfx list under one response.  
  
## Attributes

| Attribute / Element Name | Attribute /  Element Type | Description | Occurrence |
|---|---|---|---|
| Dfx | DfxType | An element consisting of a Critera for the design and/or a DfxQuery relating to the design, with reference to a specific category. | 0-n |
| name | qualifiedNameType | A unique name assigned to the Dfx element. | 1-1 |
| category | dfxCategoryType | A unique description defined by the user which relates to the products contained in the particular IPC-2581 file intended to provide identification for the group of the DfxMeasurement characteristics. The category type is an enumerated string that may be any of the following groupings COMPONENT | BOARDFAB | ASSEMBLY | STACKUP | TESTING | DATAQUALITY | 1-1 |
| Criteria | CriteraType | An element used in defining the criteria used in evaluating the measurement characteristics in order to determine whether the design as supplied by the user meets the manufacturing criteria. | 0-1 |
| DfxQuery | DfxQueryType | An element used to ask any question about the design, whether related to data in the IPC-2581 file or not. The question may refer to a DfxMeasurement,but if not then the Criteria element need not be present. | 0-1 |
