# 10.2 Terms and Definitions

The definition of all terms shall be in accordance with IPC-T-50 and the following. An asterisk (*) by the term indicates 
that it is a reproduction from IPC-T-50 and is provided to assist the reader in interpretation of this standard. The order 
of the terms is related to the IPC-2581 process flow shown in 10.1.

**Array***  
A group of elements or circuits arranged in rows and columns on a base material.

**Assembly***  
22.0049 / 80.1327  
A number of parts, subassemblies or combinations thereof joined together. (Note: This term can be used in conjunction with other terms listed herein, e.g., "Printed Board Assembly")

**Assembly Pallet**  
The generic term for the assembly that uses a finished panel, as delivered from the board fabricator, of the same or different designs, for element and circuit component mounting and attachment to the board interconnections layers. The board arrangement on the pallet may be random or in the form of an array; the pallet may also include coupons for testing.

**Blank***  
41.1339  
An unprocessed or partially processed piece of base material or metal clad base material, that has been cut from a sheet or panel, that has the rough dimensions of a printed board. (See also "Panel.")

**Board***  
See "Printed Board," and "Multilayer Printed Board."

**Fabrication Panel**  
(See "Panel")

**Finished Board**  
See "Printed Board"

**Finished Panel**  
60.0118  
A rectangular sheet of base material or metal-clad material of predetermined size that is used for the processing of one or more printed board designs and, when required, one or more test coupons which is extracted from the fabrication panel to deliver to the customer or to the next level of fabrication. (See Assembly Pallet)

**Multilayer Printed Board***  
60.1227  
The general term for a printed board that consists of rigid or flexible insulation materials and three or more alternate printed wiring and/or printed circuit layers that have been bonded together and electrically interconnected.

**Panel**  
41.1463  
A rectangular sheet of base material or metal-clad material of predetermined size that is used for the processing of one or more printed boards and, when required, one or more test coupons. (See also "Blank.")

**Printed Board (PB)***  
60.1485  
The general term for completely processed printed circuit and printed wiring configurations. (This includes single-sided, double-sided and multilayer boards with rigid, flexible, and rigid-flex base materials.)

**Printed Board Assembly***  
80.0911  
The generic term for an assembly that uses a printed board for component mounting and interconnecting purposes.

**Printed Board Assembly Array**  
A group of assemblies, all of the same design, arranged in rows and columns on a panel.
