# 3.5.4.1.2 Glyph combination

The developers of individual Glyph characters are encouraged to consider the manner in which the characters will be used. Since the BoundingBox surrounding the character must entirely encompass the Glyph, it is important to leave room in the BoundingBox so that the spacing between characters is consistent with the character style.

Using individual Glyph characters does not present a problem, however Glyph combinations should match the style of Glyph chosen by the user. Since it is mostly the Text element that instantiates fonts, the Glyph BoundingBox must fit into the Text BoundingBox. This is a simple strategy when all the Glyph characters are of a similar height. In this instance the “Y” dimensional differences between Glyph characters bounding boxes and Text bounding boxes should be identical in order to keep the Glyph characters within the Text box. Under those circumstances, only the spacing between characters needs to be considered.

As an example consider the word simple instantiated in capital letters or lower case. When instantiating a Text string, the Glyph for “SIMPLE” would only require equal bounding boxes in the character height even though the character “I” would have a smaller character width than the character “M”. A different strategy for Glyph development must be used if the Text string were to call for “Simple”. Since character height is different, it is recommended that the Glyph BoundingBox consider its location position in a Text BoundingBox according to the rule that all characters must be inside the Text box.