
# 4.1.1 Schema Sections

Each row in Table 4 is briefly decribed below, including its list of related schema elements. These elements, and relevant child elements, must be included in the IPC-2581 output when the schema section is included in the chosen mode. When the elements refer to a layer, or layers, then only those layers whose layer attributes (shown in brackets) comply with the schema section should be included. For example (referring to Section 4.1.1.7), for the “Solder Mask Layers” section, a Layer element with name “SMT” would comply if its layerFunction attribute was “SOLDERMASK”. So then the Layer, LayerRef and all LayerFeature elements for layer “SMT” would be included. When LayerFeature elements of any given layer are included, whether mandatory or optional, then the corresponding Layer & LayerRef elements MUST also be included for that layer.

## 4.1.1.1 Padstack Definitions
Instances of multilayer structure at a single point site defining the characteristics that exist at a particular point including land description or reference, non-pad description or reference, thermal connections or reference, and holes (through-hole, buried, blind, and microvias). Padstacks are for reference to the construction of the original design.
### 4.1.1.1.1 Padstack Definition Related Schema Elements
Ecad:CadData:Step:PadstackDef

## 4.1.1.2 BOM & AVL
The BOM (Bill of Material) is an inventory of items required for board fabrication, assembly, and test. Those items can be components, materials, tools or documents. They are described by attributes such as part number, quantity, and characteristics (value, tolerance, etc.). Note that the Characteristics element is a mandatory child of the BomItem element.

The AVL (Approved Vendor List) defines a mapping between the OEM part or item number (OEM Design Number) and one or more equivalent manufacturers part numbers (MPN). Each item in the BOM is uniquely identified by its OEMDesignNumberRef attribute. Each OEMDesignNumberRef value must reference an OEMDesignNumber value defined in the AVL.
### 4.1.1.2.1 BOM & AVL Related Schema Elements
Content:BomRef
Content:AvlRef
Bom
Avl

## 4.1.1.3 Component Packages
Package, silkscreen, assembly outlines, and land patterns of electronic and mechanical components, plus pin numbering and location, and additional attributes, including pin one location and orientation, pickup point, height, etc.
### 4.1.1.3.1 Component Packages Related Schema Elements
Ecad:CadData:Step:Package

## 4.1.1.4 Component Assembly Data
Describes the location (both xy and layer), and any rotation or mirroring, of the component instances on the electronic assembly. Each instance references a specific land pattern, and component package style.
### 4.1.1.4.1 Component Assembly Data Related Schema Elements
Ecad:CadData:Step:Component
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = COMPONENT | COMPONENT_TOP | COMPONENT_BOTTOM | COMPONENT_EMBEDDED | COMPONENT_FORMED | ASSEMBLY )
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature

## 4.1.1.5 Profile
Precise coordinates describing the shape of the board, including any cut outs, which can be defined with either primitive shapes or complex polygon elements.
### 4.1.1.5.1 Profile Related Schema Elements
Ecad:CadData:Step:Profile

## 4.1.1.6 Stackup
A description of the physical layers that represent the cross section of the board to be manufactured, including layer order, thickness per layer, overall thickness, and tolerance. Can also include layer grouping, such as for laminates, and specifications, to describe characteristics of materials, impedance control, etc.
### 4.1.1.6.1 Stackup Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer
Ecad:CadData:Stackup

## 4.1.1.7 Soldermask Layers
Layer definitions and geometric features (artwork) for solder mask on external layers of a printed circuit board (top and bottom).
### 4.1.1.7.1 Soldermask Layer Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = SOLDERMASK)
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature

## 4.1.1.8 Solderpaste Artwork
Layer definitions and geometric features (artwork)  for solder paste on external layers of a printed circuit board (top and bottom)
### 4.1.1.8.1 Solderpaste Layer Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = SOLDERPASTE)
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature

## 4.1.1.9 Silkscreen (Legend) Artwork
Layer definitions and geometric features (artwork)  for legend marking to be incorporated on top of solder mask material.
### 4.1.1.9.1 Silkscreen Layer Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = SILKSCREEN | LEGEND)
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature

## 4.1.1.10 Drilling & Routing Layers
Information on hole forming, either through mechanical drilling, laser ablation, or chemical mechanism and the relationship of the conductor routing layer.
### 4.1.1.10.1 Drilling & Routing Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = DRILL | ROUT| V_CUT | EDGE_CHAMFER)
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature

## 4.1.1.11 Documentation Layers
Any drawing layers such as fabrication or component assembly drawings, board outline, board dimensions etc, that supplement the manufacturing process, but are not artwork that is used directly in the fabrication process
### 4.1.1.11.1 Documentation Layer Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = DOCUMENT | GRAPHIC | BOARD_OUTLINE | REWORK | FIXTURE | PROBE | COURTYARD)
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature

## 4.1.1.12 Outer Copper Layers
Layer definitions and, with the exception of the STACKUP function mode, geometric features (artwork) that describe the etched copper on the outer (top & bottom) layers. Mandatory for fabricating the board. May also be useful for assembly and test to identify component and probe placements, and for stencil creation.
### 4.1.1.12.1 Outer Copper Layer Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = CONDUCTOR | CONDFILM | CONDFOIL  | PLANE | SIGNAL | MIXED *and* side = TOP | BOTTOM)
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature (not required for STACKUP function mode).

## 4.1.1.13 Inner Copper Layers
Layer definitions and, with the exception of the STACKUP function mode, geometric features (artwork) that describe the etched copper on all inner layers. Mandatory for fabricating the board.
### 4.1.1.13.1 Inner Copper Layer Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef

Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = CONDUCTOR | CONDFILM | CONDFOIL | PLANE | SIGNAL | MIXED *and* side = INTERNAL)
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature (not required for STACKUP function mode).

## 4.1.1.14 Dielectric Layers
Layer definitions and any geometric features (artwork) that describe the dielectric layers. Unless these layers contain cut outs for embedded components they may not contain any geometric features, but they may reference specifications, describing their material type and properties, that are essential to the fabrication process.
### 4.1.1.14.1 Dielectric Layer Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = DIELBASE | DIELCORE | DIELPREG | DILEADHV | DIELBONDPLY | DIELCOVERLAY))
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature

## 4.1.1.15 Miscellaneous Fab Layers
Miscellaneous layer definitions and geometric features (artwork) that are essential to complete the fabrication process, such as plating or coating.
### 4.1.1.15.1 Miscellaneous Fab Layer Related Schema Elements
Content:LayerRef
Ecad:CadData:Layer (where layerFunction = COATINGCOND | COATINGNONCOND | CONDUCTIVE_ADHESIVE | GLUE | HOLEFILL | SOLDERBUMP | THIEVING_KEEP_INOUT | EDGE_CHAMFER | EDGE_PLATING |  STIFFENER | CAPACITIVE | RESISTIVE)
Ecad:CadData:Step:LayerFeature

## 4.1.1.16 Logical NetList
A list of all nets where each net is described by the component pins connected to it.
### 4.1.1.16.1 Logical Netlist Related Schema Elements
Ecad:CadData:Step:LogicalNet

## 4.1.1.17 Physical NetList
A list of all nets where each net is described by the location (co-ordinates and layer) of physical points along its copper etch, as well as information required for bare board electrical testing.
### 4.1.1.17.1 Physical Netlist Related Schema Elements
Ecad:CadData:Step:PhyNetGroup

## 4.1.1.18 DFX
A collection of various measurements that are related to a particular characteristic of the product.
### 4.1.1.18.1 DFX Related Schema Elements
Ecad:CadData:Step:Dfx