# 4.1.2 Modes

The following details the purpose of each mode available in the function mode table.

## 4.1.2.1 UserDef
All schema sections are optional. This mode is primarily intended for development or test purposes, to investigate options or requirements that were not thought of at the time of writing this document. It should not be used for formal data transfer. Both sender and receiver must first agree to any unofficial transfer. However the mode could also be used internally, say with all options turned on, for storage or pre-processing purposes.

## 4.1.2.2 BOM
Primarily intended for a preliminary Bill Of Materials, before a schematic or layout exists, e.g. for long lead time part ordering, but could be used at any time during the manufacturing process if only a BOM is required.

## 4.1.2.3 Stackup
Primarily intended for preliminary stackup analysis before the layout exists, such as for bi-directional transfer between OEM and fabricator (e.g. to agree on materials), or between CAD tool and Signal Integrity, Impedance Calculator, or other tool. However this mode could be used at any time that only a stackup is required, such as from the fabricator for final validation before fabrication occurs. Note that:
- Even for “Stackup only” (no board profile and/or routing exists yet), if the layerOrGroupRef attribute of a given StackupLayer element refers to a layer (not a group) then that layer must be pre-defined in both a Content:LayerRef element and a CadData:Layer element. That is, it is illegal to have only a Stackup element in an output – all external references from within that element must be included.

## 4.1.2.4 Fabrication
All the data required to fully fabricate a Printed Circuit Board. See IPC-2584 and IPC-2588 for sectional data descriptions.

## 4.1.2.5 Assembly
All the data required to fully assemble a Printed Circuit Board. See IPC-2584 and IPC-2588 for sectional data descriptions. See IPC-2586 and IPC-2588 for sectional data descriptions.

## 4.1.2.6 Test
All the data required to test a Printed Circuit Board. See IPC-2584 and IPC-2588 for sectional data descriptions. See IPC-2585 and IPC-2587 for sectional data descriptions.

## 4.1.2.7 Stencil
All possible data required to produce solder paste stencils for a Printed Circuit Board.

## 4.1.2.8 DFX
To allow for only Dfx (measurements vs pass/fail criteria) information to be exchanged without any other design data. Primarily intended for efficient bi-directional DFx information exchange, or transfer of DFx information to/from a system that cannot read/write the design data.