# 8.2 CadData

The `CadData` element is the three-dimensional structure of the design retrieved from the CAD system as a group of layers. The information is contained in the `Layer` elements, which are listed in the correct order inside `CadData` and grouped by name and `layerFunction`. Layers are also identified by side, polarity, span, and `SpecRef` attributes that help define each layer.

CAD data layers are required in IPC-2581 to successfully hold ECAD layout information. These layers are not necessarily physical layers, but can represent various types of ECAD data that are not actually fabricated into the bare board.

Layers are sheets of two-dimensional data which, when stacked, create the Printed Circuit Assembly (unpopulated PCB and components or other related information). Some layers are physical and laminated together to form the board. Other layers represent masks, films, or phototools used to expose the board in processes that apply materials selectively on the outer layers. Some layers contain only drawings and annotations, which are not physically on the board but help further define it. These layers are organized in the IPC-2581 file by their specific type.

## Attribute Table

| Attribute / Element Name | Attribute / Element Type | Description | Occurrence |
|-------------------------|-------------------------|-------------|------------|
| CadData                 | CadDataType             | A nested element containing the actual CAD data describing the printed board and printed board assembly characteristics. | 1-1 |
| Layer                   | LayerType               | A nested element containing the different layer information represented in the CAD database which describes the electronic assembly to be manufactured. | 1-n |
| Stackup                 | StackupType             | A nested element containing the construction information for the printed board. If the file contains more than one Stackup, a unique name assignment is required for each board configuration. | 0-n |
| Step                    | StepType                | The Step element consists of multiple sub-elements, each intended to help describe the different steps needed in board fabrication or assembling the electronic product. | 1-n |

Everything about the design starts in `CadData`. The relationships are expanded through the hierarchy of the Layer and Stackup elements.
