# 2.1 Documentation conventions

The XML file format standard and the XML Schema definition language standard, as defined the by World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), have been adopted by IPC for use in the IPC-2500 series of standards.

In addition to the text based schema notation, this document provides graphical representation of the structure of the file format. The XML diagrams are designed to effectively illustrate the structure and cardinality of elements and attributes that make up any IPC-258X file. The notation in the graphics does not provide a complete visualization of the schema definition for the file format, but it does provide a good top down overview. Should there be any conflict between the graphical notation and the schema notation, the authoritative definition is the schema notation.

Table 1 provides an overview of the graphical notation used in the document.

---

**Table 1  Graphical Notation Overview**

This diagram depicts an element named AnElement that is of type TypeB. There is one attribute, named anAttribute, which is of type double. The attribute is required.

Example:
```xml
<AnElement anAttribute="14.44e-3"/>
```
Note that all attribute values must be enclosed in quotes, regardless of type.

This diagram depicts an element named AnotherElement that is of type TypeA with two attributes. The attribute anAttribute is required. The second attribute, anOptionalAttribute, is optional. Both attributes are of type string.

Examples:
```xml
<AnotherElement anAttribute="red" anOptionalAttribute="a string" />
<AnotherElement anAttribute="blue" />
```

The ElementType OneToManyOrElements is the parent of an unordered list of one or more instances of the elements AnElement and AnotherElement. The type TypeA occurs only once while TypeB can occur many times.

The arrow indicates a substitution of the element named AnOrParentElement. The substitution declares that one and only one occurrence is allowed. The AnOrParentElement can have one of AnElement or AnotherElement as a child element.

The optional indication for the three element children shows that none may be present or many versions of all three are possible.

This diagram depicts an element, AParentElement, of type AParentElementType. This element has one attribute, attributeOfParent, which is optional. The lines indicate that occurrences of AnElement and AnotherElement appear in the order with AnElement indicated as required while AnotherElement is optional. Both elements have a required attribute; however, if AnotherElement is instantiated, anOptionalAttribute is also possible.

This diagram depicts a type, AParentElementType, that contains a sequence starting with one of AThirdElement or AFourth element followed by 1-n AnElement and an optional final AnotherElement. The AParentElement also has an optional attribute.
